Update README with prereqs (#30)
ipdk-io/ipsec-recipe: README.md

# IPsec-Recipe

The IPsec recipe is an application that enables strongSwan to use [Infrastructure Application Interface](https://ipdk.io/documentation/Interfaces/InfraApp/), specifically the P4Runtime and OpenConfig gRPCs provided by the [Networking-Recipe](https://github.com/ipdk-io/networking-recipe).

The strongSwan plugin available in this repository implements a policy-based IPsec enablement using security policy database (SPD) and security association database (SAD). The P4Runtime client introduces a programmable IPsec flow using P4 language for the SPD and OpenConfig for SAD configurability.

* IPsec recipe is validated only on Intel&reg; IPU E2100 target
* Refer to https://ipdk.io/documentation/Recipes/InlineIPsec/
* YANG model for IPsec offload: https://github.com/ipdk-io/openconfig-public/blob/master/release/models/ipsec/openconfig-ipsec-offload.yang
* Reference P4 program to enable IPsec on DPDK target: https://github.com/ipdk-io/networking-recipe/tree/main/p4src/Inline_IPsec

## strongSwan Integration with Inline Crypto Engine

* The user should start and stop the strongSwan services as described in strongSwan manual.

> * The strongSwan configuration files must be configured by user as described in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* strongSwan must be configured by user as described in
```
- This avoids saying "the **configuration** files must be **configured**," which is both redundant and nonsensical. You don't configure the _files_; you configure strongSwan _using_ the files.
- Should _strongSwan_ be capitalized at the beginning of a sentence? I see instances in the text that suggest otherwise.

			https://wiki.strongswan.org/projects/strongswan/wiki/UserDocumentation
* Confirm that the networking-recipe (the `infrap4d` process, which acts as the gRPC server) is running before starting strongSwan services.
* strongSwan hosts (Host-A<---->Host-B) must be connected to negotiate the keys.

> * The user must follow best practices followed by opensource community for other control plane related configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You should follow the best practices of the open-source community for other control plane related configurations.
```
- You're addressing the user. Referring to the reader in the third person is distant and formal. "You" is much friendlier.
- "Best practices" are preferred, not mandatory, so one "_should_ follow," rather than "_must_ follow."
- This avoids saying "**follow** the best practices **followed**," which is redundant.
- "Open source" is two words. They should generally be hyphenated when used as a modifier. (This helps the reader parse it as _"open source" community_, as opposed to _open "source community."_) The day will doubtless come when the two are routinely written as one word, but I don't think we're quite there yet.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

It is assumed that the ES2K IPU SDE dependencies have been installed on the
system. The list of dependencies can be found
in `sde/tools/setup/install_dep.py` file.

> 

Reviewer 2: is this file part of opensource Networking recipe ? if not then we should not provide mev specific path here.

Author: We can also take an alternative approach here -- similar to what the SDE team does.

All the dependencies are listed inside a Python file and the user only needs to run the Python script to run and check to install all dependencies. This is a good approach, since it also makes individual component more "complete". Plus it is idempotent -- if those libs/packages are already installed, it will skip over as nothing to do.

If you are ok with this idea, I can pull those scripts in from SDE repo and check-in here to do the job instead of having the user run multiple steps manually.

./install_dep_packages_acc.sh
```

> Clone strongSwan and switch to version 5.9.3 (any version can be used but verification has been completed with v5.9.3 on Fedora 33)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clone strongSwan and switch to version 5.9.3 (any version can be used, but verification has been completed with v5.9.3 on Fedora 33)
```
Quibble: one doesn't switch to a _version_ in git, one switches to a branch or tag. Just sayin'.
